DECADES OF SECRECY, MEDICARE
UNVEILED WHAT IT PAYS INDIVIDUAL
DOCTORS.
AND THE DATA SHOWS A TINY
FRACTION OF PHYSICIANS EACH
RECEIVED MILLIONS IN A SINGLE
YEAR.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY.
A MAJOR FLAW WAS FOUND IN A KEY
TOOL FOR INTERNET SECURITY,
SETTING OFF ALARM BELLS ACROSS
THE TECH WORLD.
AND EXPOSING PASSWORDS, CREDIT
CARD NUMBERS AND OTHER SENSITIVE
USER DATA.
AND WE RETURN TO BANGLADESH,
NEARLY A YEAR AFTER THE FACTORY
COLLAPSE THAT KILLED MORE THAN A
THOUSAND PEOPLE.
TO SEE WHAT HAS AND HASN'T BEEN
DONE TO MAKE THESE WORKPLACES
SAFER.
>> FOR THEIR PART FACTORY
OWNERS, COMPLAIN THAT THEIR
INTERNATIONAL CUSTOMERS HAVE
TALKED ABOUT IMPROVING
CONDITIONS BUT HAVEN'T BEEN
WILLING TO PAY FOR IT
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER SCHOOL WAS
ENGULFED BY SUDDEN VIOLENCE
TODAY, WHEN A TEENAGER STABBED
AND SLASHED 19 STUDENTS AND A
SECURITY GUARD IN PENNSYLVANIA.
IT HAPPENED JUST MINUTES BEFORE
CLASSES BEGAN AT FRANKLIN
REGIONAL HIGH, IN MURRYSVILLE,
ABOUT 20 MILES EAST OF
PITTSBURGH.
THE 16-YEAR-OLD SUSPECT WAS
FINALLY WRESTLED DOWN.
POLICE DID NOT RELEASE HIS
IDENTITY, BUT DID SAY HE WAS
ARMED WITH TWO KNIVES.
EMERGENCY OFFICIALS SAID A FIRE
ALARM MAY HAVE LIMITED THE
CASUALTIES.
>> WE'RE TEACHING CHILDREN IN
SCHOOL NOW IF THEY'RE IN A
HALLWAYS AND THEY HEAR SOMETHING
GOING ON TO BASICALLY RUN OUT OF
THE BUILDING.
SO PULLING THAT FIRE ALARM COULD
HAVE SAVED LIVES WITHOUT A DOUBT
TO MAKE PEOPLE THINK THERE WAS
SOMETHING GOING ON A TO GET OUT
OF THE BUILDING.
ONE PERSON'S ACTIONS COULD HAVE
SAVED TEN PEOPLES LIVES OR
CAUSED TEN PEOPLE NOT TO BE
INJURED.
>> Ifill: SEVERAL OF THE WOUNDED
WERE IN CRITICAL CONDITION,
INCLUDING ONE WITH A DEEP WOUND
THAT NARROWLY MISSED HIS HEART.
>> Ifill: AT FORT HOOD, TEXAS
TODAY, THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
AND THE TROOPS REMEMBERED THE
VICTIMS OF LAST WEEK'S MASS
SHOOTING.
THEY GATHERED AT A SOMBER
CEREMONY THAT'S BECOME ALL TOO
FAMILIAR.
>> Ifill: FOR THE SECOND TIME IN
FIVE YEARS, THE NATION'S LARGEST
ARMY BASE HONORED SOLDIERS
KILLED NOT IN WARS ABROAD, BUT
BY A GUNMAN FROM WITHIN THEIR
OWN RANKS.
AS BEFORE, PRESIDENT AND MRS.
OBAMA WERE THERE.
>> ONCE MORE, SOLDIERS WHO
SURVIVED FOREIGN WAR ZONES WERE
STRUCK DOWN HERE AT HOME WHERE
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE SAFE.
WE STILL DO NOT KNOW EXACTLY
WHY.
BUT WE DO KNOW THIS, WE MUST
HONOR THEIR LIVES NOT IN WORD OR
TALK, BUT IN DEED.
AND IN TRUTH.
>> Ifill: THE SHOOTER, 34-YEAR-
OLD SPECIALIST IVAN LOPEZ,
OPENED FIRE AT THE BASE LAST
WEDNESDAY, AFTER AN ARGUMENT
OVER A LEAVE REQUEST.
TODAY, HELMETS AND BOOTS MARKED
THE THREE SOLDIERS WHO DIED:
SERGEANTS TIMOTHY OWENS, CARLOS
LAZANEY-RODRIGUEZ AND DANIEL
FERGUSON.
LOPEZ ALSO WOUNDED 16 OTHERS
BEFORE TAKING HIS OWN LIFE.
IT WAS OVER IN EIGHT MINUTES,
BUT THE PRESIDENT SAID, THE
GRIEF ENDURES.
>> I KNOW THAT THE MEN AND
SOLDIERS THEY BECAME-- THEIR
SENSE OF SERVICE AND THEIR
PATRIOTISM.
SO MUCH OF THAT CAME FROM YOU.
YOU GAVE YOUR SONS TO AMERICA,
AND JUST AS YOU WILL HONOR THEM
ALWAYS, SO TOO, WILL THE NATION
THAT THEY SERVED.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S SERVICE TOOK
PLACE ON THE SAME SITE AS IN
NOVEMBER 2009, WHEN MR. OBAMA
LAST VISITED FORT HOOD.
THAT WAS FIVE DAYS AFTER MAJOR
NIDAL HASAN SHOT AND KILLED 13
PEOPLE, IN THE WORST MASS MURDER
EVER AT AN AMERICAN MILITARY
INSTALLATION.
NOW, AS THE COMMUNITY GRIEVES
AGAIN, LEADERS ARE LEFT TO
PONDER WHAT ELSE THEY CAN DO.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS NO TALK
TODAY FROM THE PRESIDENT OR THES
AGAINST SUCH VIOLENCE.
INSTEAD, IT WAS A DAY RESERVED
FOR COMFORTING WORDS, AMID THE
ECHOING REFRAINS OF MOURNING.
>> Ifill: THE AGENTS WHO GUARD
THE PRESIDENT HAVE NEW RULES
ABOUT TAKING A DRINK.
THERE WAS WORD TODAY THAT THE
SECRET SERVICE HAS TIGHTENED ITS
ALCOHOL POLICY AFTER A PAIR OF
EMBARRASSING INCIDENTS.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTS
THE AGENCY ALSO DEMOTED THE HEAD
OF THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
DIVISION AND  REASSIGNED NEARLY
TWO DOZEN AGENTS.
>> Ifill: A STRING OF BOMBINGS
KILLED DOZENS OF PEOPLE FROM
SYRIA TO PAKISTAN TODAY, AND
WOUNDED SCORES MORE.
THE STATE NEWS AGENCY IN SYRIA
REPORTED TWO CAR BOMBS EXPLODED
IN THE CENTRAL CITY OF HOMS,
KILLING 25 PEOPLE.
IN IRAQ, CAR BOMBS KILLED AT
LEAST 24, AND LEFT BURNED
VEHICLES LITTERING THE STREETS
IN SHIITE DISTRICTS OF BAGHDAD,
AND A TOWN TO THE SOUTH.
AND IN PAKISTAN, A BOMB TORE
THROUGH A BUSY PRODUCE MARKET ON
THE OUTSKIRTS OF ISLAMABAD.
AT LEAST 21 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN THAT ATTACK
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, THE
GOVERNMENT WARNED IT WON'T WAIT
FOREVER TO END STANDOFFS IN TWO
EASTERN CITIES.
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS ARE
STILL OCCUPYING REGIONAL
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IN DONETSK
AND LUHANSK, AND STILL DEMANDING
VOTES ON DECLARING INDEPENDENCE.
IN KIEV, THE INTERIOR MINISTER
SAID HIS GOVERNMENT WANTS THE
CONFRONTATIONS  RESOLVED WITHIN
THE NEXT TWO DAYS.
>> ( translated ): I AM SURE
THAT BOTH POLITICAL AND FORCE
OPTIONS ARE AVAILABLE.
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE ANOTHER OPTION
WILL BE TAKEN UP WHICH IS
SOMETHING IN BETWEEN.
FOR THOSE WHO WANT DIALOGUE, WE
PROPOSE TALKS AND A POLITICAL
SOLUTION.
FOR THE MINORITY WHO WANT
CONFLICT, THEY WILL GET A
FORCEFUL ANSWER FROM THE
UKRAINIAN AUTHORITIES.
>> Ifill: IN WASHINGTON,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
VICTORIA NULAND SAID THERE'S NO
DOUBT THE RUSSIANS WERE DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN THE UNREST IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
AND SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY SPOKE TWICE BY PHONE WITH
THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER.
OPTIMISM ROSE TODAY AMONG
AUSTRALIAN OFFICIALS LEADING THE
SEARCH FOR THAT MISSING
MALAYSIAN JETLINER.
THAT'S AFTER THEY PICKED UP TWO
MORE "PINGS" THAT MAY VERY WELL
HAVE COME FROM THE PLANE'S
"BLACK BOX" RECORDERS.
LUCY WATSON, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS FROM
BEIJING.
MANY OF THOSE ON THE PLANE WERE
CHINESE CITIZENS.
>> THE AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT IS
CONFIDENT THEY ARE LOOKING IN
THE RIGHT PLACE AND DARING TO
USE POSITIVE WORDS AFTER
ANALYZING THE SIGNALS DETECTED.
>> I AM OPTIMISTIC THAT WE WILL
FIND THE AIRCRAFT.
THE TRANSMISSION WAS NOT OF
NATURAL ORIGIN.
WE BELIEVE THE SIGNALS TO BE
CONSISTENT WITH THE
SPECIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF
A FLIGHT DATA RECORDER.
>> THE SHEER DEPTH OF THE SEARCH
IS THE PROBLEM.
ON THE SURFACE THE AUSTRALIAN
SHIP OLD SHIELD LISTENS FOR
PINGS.
AT 1,250 FEET DOWN, IT'S AS DEEP
AS THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING IS
HIGH, FOUR TIMES DEEPER THAN
WHERE THE PINGER LOCATOR FIRST
PICKED UP A SIGNAL.
THE WRECKAGE OF THE TITANIC WAS
AT 12,500 FEET BUT FLIGHT 370
COULD BE ON THE OCEAN FLOOR AT
15,000 FEET, NEARLY THREE MILES
DOWN.
>> IT COULD HAVE SHIFTED.
IT COULD HAVE PICKED UP BY THE
OCEAN CURRENT AND TOSSED MILES.
IT COULD HAVE FALLEN OFF THE
EDGE OF A CLIFF AND BE FURTHER
DOWN THAN IT WAS BEFORE WHICH IS
WHY WE'VE HAD PERIODIC AND
INTERMITTENT DETECTIONS.
>> OPERATIONS IN THE AIR PUSH
FORWARD TOO, SCOURING FOR DEBRIS
AND SIGNS OF ENCOURAGEMENT ARE
THERE.
ANOTHER HUGE AUTO RECALL IS IN
THE WORKS.
TOYOTA ANNOUNCED TODAY IT'S
CALLING BACK NEARLY 6.4 MILLION
VEHICLES, INCLUDING
TWO MILLION IN THE U.S.
THEIR PROBLEMS RANGE FROM
DEFECTIVE ENGINE STARTERS TO
FAULTY AIR BAG CABLES.
NO INJURIES OR CRASHES HAVE BEEN
REPORTED.
AND VOLKSWAGEN HAS HALTED SALES
OF 27,000 VEHICLES, FOR
TRANSMISSION LEAKS.
BANK OF AMERICA WILL PAY A
RECORD $770 MILLION IN A FEDERAL
SETTLEMENT OVER CREDIT CARD
"ADD-ONS".
IT INVOLVES CLAIMS OF MISLEADING
CUSTOMERS ABOUT CREDIT
PROTECTION, AND OF BILLING FOR
IDENTITY-THEFT PROTECTION
WITHOUT APPROVAL.
AND, HEWLETT-PACKARD IS PAYING
$108 MILLION OVER CHARGES IT
BRIBED OFFICIALS IN RUSSIA,
MEXICO AND POLAND.
IN OTHER ECONOMIC NEWS, SENATE
REPUBLICANS BLOCKED A DEMOCRATIC
BILL ON CLOSING THE PAY GAP
BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN.
AND ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
181 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,437.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 71 POINTS
TO CLOSE JUST UNDER 4,184.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED 20 TO
FINISH AT 1,872.
THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT
SAVORED A RECORD NINTH NATIONAL
TITLE TODAY, AND ITS FIFTH
UNDEFEATED SEASON.
U-CONN BEAT NOTRE DAME IN LAST
NIGHT'S CHAMPIONSHIP GAME, 79 TO
58 IN A BATTLE OF  UNBEATEN
TEAMS.
IT WAS THE SECOND STRAIGHT TITLE
FOR THE HUSKIES, WHO FINISHED
THE YEAR, 40 AND 0.
U-CONN ALSO WON THE MEN'S
NATIONAL TITLE ON MONDAY NIGHT.
CONNECTICUT TEAMS LAST WON BOTH
TITLES IN 2004.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
MEDICARE PAYMENTS IN THE
MILLIONS, TO A TINY FRACTION OF
PHYSICIANS; THE SECURITY FLAW
SETTING OFF ALARM BELLS ACROSS
THE TECH WORLD; THE DEADLY
FACTORY COLLAPSE IN BANGLADESH,
ONE YEAR LATER; NEW SCRUTINY OF
THE DRUGS USED IN LETHAL
INJECTIONS; PLUS, COMMEMORATING
A LEGENDARY SINGER'S FIGHT
AGAINST RACISM.
>> UNPRECEDENTED DATA IS PUTTING
A NEW SPOTLIGHT ON WHAT DOCTORS
ARE PAID IN THE LONGRUNNING
BATTLE OVER HOW TO TRIM THE
NATION'S HEALTH CARE SPENDING.
THE DATA, THE FIRST OF ITS KIND
RELEASED BY MEDICARE, OFFERS A
RARE LOOK AT HOW $77 BILLION WAS
PAID BY THE GOVERNMENT TO
880,000 PROVIDERS IN 2012.
AMONG THE KEY FINDERS, JUST 3%
OF DOCTORS AND MEDICAL PROVIDERS
RECEIVED AT LEAST ONE QUARTER OF
ALL THOSE PAYMENTS.
NEWS ANALYSES ALSO SHOWED
MEDICARE PAID NEARLY 4,000
DOCTORS AND PROVIDERS MORE THAN
$1 MILLION APIECE THAT YEAR.
THE RELEASE OF THE DATA HAS LONG
BEEN THE SUBJECT OF AN ARGUMENT
AMONG CONSUMER GROUPS, WATCHDOGS
AND DOCTORS' TRADE GROUPS.
SHANNON PETIPIECE REPORTS FOR
BLOOMBERG NEWS, AND DR. ARTIS --
ARDIS DEEHOVEN.
DOCTOR, WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE
MOST IMPORTANT INFORMATION HERE
THAT IS NOW AVAILABLE THAT
WASN'T BEFORE?
>> I THINK SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT ARE STANDING OUT THE MOST
TO US IS THAT THERE IS A SMALL
NUMBER OF DOCTORS, ASYO
MENTIONED, WHERE A LOT OF THIS
MEDICARE MONEY IS BEING
CONCENTRATED.
A LOT OF THAT MONEY IS GOING
THERE.
ABOUT 3% OF DOCTORS ARE GETTING
ALMOST A QUARTER OF ALL THE
MEDICARE MONEY THAT IS PAID TO
DOCTORS.
THAT WAS SURPRISING AND THAT WAS
INTERESTING TO US, AND I THINK
NOW THE IDEA IS TO DRILL DOWN IN
THE DATA AND FIND OUT WHY THESE
DOCTORS ARE GETTING SO MUCH.
IN SOME CASES, THERE ARE LIKELY
GOING TO BE INSTANCES OF WASTE,
OVERUSE, FRAUD -- IN SOME CASES,
THERE WILL BE A PERFECTLY GOOD
EXPLANATION WHY SOME DOCTORS ARE
GETTING PAID HIGH AMOUNTS BUT IT
RAISES QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVEN'T
BEEN ABLE TO ASK BEFORE BUT THIS
IS THE FIRST TIME WE'RE GETTING
A LOOK AT THE DATA.
>> Woodruff: IS IT SOMETHING
THAT THE DOCTORS WHO GOT THE
MOST MONEY HAVE IN COMMON WITH
ONE ANOTHER?
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF
OPHTHALMOLOGISTS.
EYE DOCTORS ON THIS LIST.
THAT SURPRISED US.
AMONG THE TOP 25 HIGHEST PAID
DOCTORS, ABOUT HALF WERE
OPHTHALMOLOGISTS AND WE LOOKED
INTO THIS A LITTLE BIT AND FOUND
OUT THAT'S BEING DRIVEN BY SOME
OF THESE NEW, VERY EXPENSIVE
DRUGS THAT ARE NOW AVAILABLE TO
TREAT PEOPLE WITH A CONDITION OF
BLINDNESS CALLED MACULAR
DEGENERATION THAT'S VERY COMMON
IN THE ELDERLY.
A LOT OF DOCTORS ARE USING THESE
DRUGS, ADMINISTERING THEM IN
THEIR OFFICES, AND THAT'S WHERE
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF MEDICARE
GOING WHICH I DON'T THINK MANY
PEOPLE REALIZE UNTIL NOW WHEN WE
WERE ABLE TO CRUNCH THESE
NUMBERS.
>> Woodruff: UP UNTIL NOW,
SHANNON, WHAT WAS THE GENERAL
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW MEDICARE
WAS SUPPOSED TO WORK?
>> THE IDEA OF HOW IT IS
SUPPOSED TO WORK IS THAT THE
DOCTORS WHO ARE TREATING THE
MOST SENIORS, WHO ARE PROVIDING
QUALITY SERVICES, THAT THEY'RE
PROPERLY TREATING THEIR
PATIENTS, THE SENIORS, THE 50
MILLION ELDERLY AND DISABLED WHO
GET THIS MONEY.
YOU KNOW, WHAT IS THE CONCERN
HAS ALWAYS BEEN IS THAT THERE IS
A LOT OF WASTE IN THE SYSTEM,
THAT THERE ARE DOCTORS WHO ARE
DOING EXCESSIVE PROCEDURES,
EXCESSIVE TESTS AND THAT'S WHAT
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE LOOKING
FOR IN THIS DATA.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, JUST RIGHT
NOW, SHANNON, WHY THIS IS BEING
RELEASED TODAY BY THE MEDICARE
AGENCY.
>> IT'S BEEN KEPT FROM THE
PUBLIC FOR ABOUT THREE DECADES.
WHEN A JUDGE PUT AN INJUNCTION
ON THIS DATA, SAYING THAT
DOCTORS' PRIVACY SHOULD BE
PROTECTED AND THIS DATA
SHOULDN'T BE RELEASED.
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" SUED TO
HAVE THE DATA RELEASED.
IN MAY A JUDGE LIFTED THE
INJUVENGZ AND THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION SAID THEY WERE
GOING TO RELEASE -- F THE
INJUNCTION AND THE OBAMA SAID
THEY WOULD RELEASE THE DATA, TO
BE ABLE TO LIFT THE VEIL ON
PAYMENTS AND ACTIVITY THAT GOES
ON IN THIS $600 BILLION A YEAR
MEDICARE PROGRAM AND BE ABLE TO
LET CONSUMERS, WATCHDOG GROUPS,
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, PATIENT
ADVOCATES SEE THIS DATA AND
HOPEFULLY USE THAT TO TRY TOSE
WHAT WORKS AND WHAT DOESN'T IN
THE SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: I'LL TURN NOW TO
DR. ARDIS DEEHOVEN, PRESIDENT OF
THE AMERICAN MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION.
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN WHAT APPEARS
TO BE A LOPSIDED SYSTEM OF
PAYMENTS HERE FOR MEDICARE?
>> IT'S VERY EARLY, RIGHT NOW, I
THINK, FOR US TO REALLY
UNDERSTAND ALL THE DETAILS
INVOLVED.
THERE ARE MANY ELEMENTS TO THIS
THAT HAVE TO BE REVIEWED AND
UNDERSTOOD.
IT IS VERY CLEAR THAT OUR
CONCERNS HAVE BEEN AROUND SAFE
GUARDS OF THIS INFORMATION.
IS THE DATA CORRECT?
ARE WE TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION
HOW THIS POPULATION NEEDS
SPECIFIC CARE, AND OBVIOUSLY
RELEASING DATA DOESN'T ADDRESS
PART OF THE ISSUE, SO I THINK ON
THE FRONT END OF THIS DISCUSSION
WE HAVE TO BE CLEAR ABOUT THE
FACT THAT WE HAVE TO SPEND MORE
TIME DOING THE DIVE INTO THE
DATA, WHAT DOES IT MEAN, HOW
PATIENTS ARE BEING SERVED AND
HOW THEY ARE BEING PROVIDED THE
CARE THEY RECEIVE.
>> Woodruff: BASED ON WHAT YOU
HAVE SEEN, DR. HOVEN, IS THIS
THE WAY THE MEDICARE SYSTEM IS
SUPPOSED TO WORK?
>> WELL, PHYSICIANS NEED TO BE
PAID FOR PROVIDING HIGH QUALITY
CARE TO THEIR PATIENTS, AND THE
PATIENTS DESERVE TO GET THE HIGH
QUALITY CARE THAT THEY NEED.
CLEARLY, WE NEED TO PAY MORE
ATTENTION TO DETAILS.
I THINK RIGHT NOW IN TERMS OF
HOW THIS IS WORKING, RAW DATA IS
NOT SPECIFICALLY THE WAY TO LOOK
AT IT, AND I THINK ONE OF THE
THINGS YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT, AS
WAS ALREADY MENTIONED, IS THE
COST OF DRUGS BUILT INTO THESE
PAYMENTS.
REMEMBER THAT PHYSICIANS,
PARTICULARLY IN OGILVY
PRACTICES, ONCOLOGY PRACTICES --
IN OPHTHALMOLOGIST PRACTICES AND
MEDICARE WILL ONLY PAY FOR 80%.
THE PATIENT PAYS 20% AND THE
PHYSICIAN'S OFFICE IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DIFFERENCE
IF, IN FACT, THE PATIENT CAN'T
USE THE DRUG, IT IS WASTED,
RESPONSIBLE FOR STORING IT.
COSTS OF PROVIDING THE CARE ARE
VERY IMPORTANT AND I THINK IF WE
REVIEW THIS DATA, IF ANYONE
REVIEWS THIS DATA THEY HAVE TO
BE CAREFUL ABOUT HOW THEY
INTERPRET THE INFORMATION.
>> Woodruff: JUST ON THE SURFACE
OF THE FACT THAT
OPHTHALMOLOGISTS WERE HALF OF
THOSE WHO WERE THE HIGHEST PAID,
WHAT WOULD BE THE EXPLANATION
FOR THAT?
>> MY INTERPRETATION INITIALLY
-- AGAIN, I'M NOT AN
OPHTHALMOLOGIST, WOULD BE THE
FACT THAT THESE DOCTORS ARE
TAKING CARE OF PEOPLE WITH
SIGNIFICANT RETINAL DISEASES --
RETINAL DEGENERATION DISEASES.
THESE ARE DIFFICULT TO MANAGE
AND VERY COSTLY.
>> Ifill: JUST IN CONNECTION
WITH THAT, DR. HOVEN, WHEN
PEOPLE LOOK AT THIS AND THEY
LOOK AT THE NUMBER OF
PROCEDURES, THE COST OF
PROCEDURES, AND BECAUSE YOU PAY
MORE FOR SOMETHING DOES THAT
MEAN IT'S A MORE VALUABLE
PROCEDURE?
HOW DO YOU ANSWER THAT?
HOW DO YOU ANSWER THE QUANTITY
VERSUS QUALITY QUESTION?
>> HIGH-COST CARE DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN HIGH-QUALITY
CARE AND I THINK WE'RE ALL VERY
AWARE OF THIS IN THIS DAY AND
AGE.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER QUESTION
THAT COMES TO MY MIND IS WHY WAS
THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
OPPOSED TO THE RELEASE OF THIS
DATA FOR SO LONG?
IS THERE DAMAGE DONE BY THIS
RELEASE?
>> TO THE FIRST QUESTION, IT IS
CLEAR THAT WE ARE VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF TRANSPARENCY IN
DATA RELEASE.
WE WANT IT TO BE ACCURATE.
WE WANT IT TO BE USABLE IN THE
APPROPRIATE WAY.
WE WANT SOME SAFE GUARDS IN
PLACE TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
DATA IS NOT SIMPLY OUT THERE IN
AN UNINTERPRETABLE WAY AND
UNFORTUNATELY I THINK THAT MAY
BE THE CASE WITH THE WAY C.M.S.
HAS PRESENTED THIS DATA.
WE ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
QUALITY, AND WE'RE VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT MAKING SURE THAT
PHYSICIAN PRACTICES ARE ABLE TO
DO WHAT THEY NEED TO BE ABLE TO
DO, TO TAKE CARE OF PATIENTS.
>> Woodruff: CAN THE A.M.A. AND
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS GET
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OUT THERE
THAT YOU THINK WILL PUT THIS
INFORMATION IN CONTEXT?
>> YES, I THINK WE CAN.
NOW THAT WE'VE SEEN THE FORMAT
IT'S PRESENTED IN -- AND BY THE
WAY, WE DID NOT KNOW WHAT THIS
INFORMATION WOULD LOOK LIKE.
WE RECEIVED IT AT THE SAME TIME
AS EVERYONE ELSE DID.
NOW THAT WE HAVE THIS
INFORMATION, I THINK IT WILL
ENABLE US TO CONTINUE OUR
DIALOGUE WITH C.M.S., WITH
MEDICARE, TO TALK ABOUT THE WAYS
TO IMPROVE THE WAY THE DATA IS
PRESENTED, TO MAKE IT MORE
USER-APPROPRIATE AND GIVING
INTERPRETATION GUIDELINES IN AN
APPROPRIATE WAY AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: SEEING WHAT YOU SEE
RIGHT NOW, DR. HOVEN, DO YOU
STILL BELIEVE IT IS A MISTAKE TO
RELEASE THIS TO THE PUBLIC?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S A MISTAKE
THE IMPORTANT THING IS YOU WANT
DATA TO BE RELEASED IN A WAY
THAT IS USABLE AND APPROPRIATE
AND THAT THE SAFE GUARDS ARE IN
PLACE SO IT IS NOT MISUSED IN
THE CARE OF PATIENTS.
>> Woodruff: LET ME COME BACK TO
YOU, SHANNON WITH BLOOMBERG
NEWS.
FOR ORDINARY FOLKS OUT THERE
WATCHING THIS, IF THEY WANT TO
LOOK AT THIS INFORMATION, WHAT'S
THE BEST WAY TO SEE IT AND
UNDERSTAND IT?
>> IT IS COMPLEX TO GO THROUGH.
IT'S AVAILABLE ON THE CENTER FOR
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES
WEBSITE.
IT IS A BIG CHUNK OF DATA.
IT CRASHED OUR COMPUTERS AROUND
BLOOMBERG WHEN WE WERE TRYING TO
DOWNLOAD IT INTO AN EXCEL
SPREADSHEET.
IF YOU GET ON THERE, YOU CAN GO
THROUGH AND SEARCH FOR YOUR
DOCTOR AND YOU CAN SEE THINGS
LIKE HOW MANY OF A CERTAIN
PROCEDURE DID A DOCTOR PERFORM,
HOW MUCH WAS MY DOCTOR PAID, WAS
HE PAID MORE THAN HIS PEERS FOR
MEDICARE, AND PEOPLE MAY HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER THEIR
DOCTOR HAS BEEN DOING TOO MANY
OF A CERTAIN PROCEDURE ON THEM
AND THEY CAN SEE HOW ITTEP
COMPARES TO THEIR PEERS.
DID MY DOCTOR A LOT MORE STENTS
THAN OTHER CARDIOLOGISTS?
THAT'S A WAY PEOPLE CAN USE THIS
AS DR. HOVEN WAS SAYING, IT HAS
TO BE PUT INTO CONTEXT AND THERE
COULD BE EXPLANATIONS WHY THERE
IS GOING TO BE AN OUTLIER IN
THIS DATA, BUT IT ALLOWS US TO
ASK THESE QUESTIONS, AND
PATIENTS CAN ASK THEIR DOCTORS,
"I SAW THAT YOU GET A LOT MORE
MONEY FROM MEDICARE THAN THE
AVERAGE CARDIOLOGIST OR AVERAGE
OPHTHALMOLOGIST.
WHY IS THAT?"
THEY MAY HAVE AN EXPLANATION.
THEY MAY NOT.
IT ALLOWS PEOPLE FOR THE FIRST
TIME TO SEE THIS INFORMATION
ABOUT DOCTORS WHICH IT HAS BEEN
A BLACK BOX UNTIL THIS POINT.
>> Woodruff: THE QUESTIONS HAVE
BEGUN, AND WE THANK YOU BOTH FOR
JOINING US WITH SOME OF THE
ANSWERS.
SHANNON OF BLOOMBERG NEWS AND
DR. ARDIS DEEHOVEN OF THE
AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION.
>> Ifill: YOU MAY HAVE HEARD
HEADLINES TODAY ABOUT A MAJOR
LAPSE IN INTERNET SECURITY, AND
THE POSSIBILITY THAT MILLIONS OF
PASSWORDS, CREDIT CARD NUMBERS,
BANK INFORMATION AND COMMONLY
USED WEB SITES COULD HAVE BEEN
EXPOSED.
IT INVOLVES A BUG OR SECURITY
LEAK CALLED HEARTBLEED, WHICH
CAN BE USED TO READ ENCRYPTED
INFORMATION.
HARI SREENIVASAN GETS A
BREAKDOWN ON WHAT YOU NEED TO
KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: ESSENTIALLY,
HEARTBLEED CAN BE USED  TO READ
THE MEMORY OF COMPUTER SERVERS.
THE PLACES BEHIND A WEBSITE THAT
STORE YOUR INFORMATION,
INCLUDING THE LOCK AND KEY
SYSTEM WHICOTOUR
USERNAMES AND PASSWORDS.
YOU PROBABLY SEE THIS ENCRYPTION
IN THE FORM OF A GREEN LOCK WHEN
YOU CONDUCT A TRANSACTION AND
EXCHANGE INFORMATION.
THE BREACH WAS REVEALED THIS
WEEK BUT APPARENTLY HAS EXISTED
FOR A LONG TIME.
RUSSELL BRANDOM OF "THE VERGE,"
AN ONLINE SITE COVERING TECH
NEWS, IS HERE TO HELP EXPLAIN.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS BREACH?
WHAT CAN HACKERS DO?
>> ALL THOSE I TALKED TO WERE
RUNNING OUT OF, LIKE, EXTREME
LANGUAGE TO TALK ABOUT.
CATASTROPHIC.
BRUCE SCHNEIDER SAID ON A SCALE
OF ONE TO 10, THIS WAS AN 11.
UNLIKE ANYTHING WE HAVE SEEN.
PART OF WHAT'S SO UNNERVING
ABOUT IT IS WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
HOW MUCH ANYONE GOT.
WHEN USED ON A SERVER, IT WILL
SPIT BACK A LITTLE CHUNK OF
MEMORY OF WHATEVER IS IN THE
WORKING MEMORY OF THE SERVER, SO
WHAT'S IN THE RANDOM CHUNK?
WE DON'T KNOW.
IT'S A LITTLE LIKEPHISHING.
BUT THERE IS A LOST SENSITIVE
INFORMATION.
>> WHAT ARE PEOPLE -- THERE IS A
LOT OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION.
>> MORE DISCONCERNING TO
SECURITY PROFESSIONALS IS THE
IDEA THAT YOU HAVE THE PRIVATE
KEY BEHIND THE CERTIFICATE.
THE GREEN LOCK.
IT IS THE KEY TO THAT LOCK.
IF SOMEONE GOT THAT, THAT MEANS
THEY CAN UNLOCK IT WHATEVER THEY
WANT.
EVEN AFTER THE PATCH IS MADE,
THAT KEY CAN STILL BE USED TO
SNOOP ON TRAFFIC THAT'S COMING
BETWEEN THESE SERVERS.
>> WHAT HAPPENS TO ME AS A
CONSUMER?
WHAT DO I DO TODAY AFTER HEARING
THESE HEADLINES?
>> IT'S HARD.
THERE ISN'T A LOT FOR CONSUMERS
TO DO.
THIS IS A SERVER-SITE BREACH.
FUNDAMENTALLY, IT'S A BREACH ON
THE OTHER END.
THESE PEOPLE THAT YOU TRUSTED
WITH YOUR INFORMATION,
MAINTAINING THE SERVICE, IT'S AN
ISSUE OF THEIR SECURITY, NOT
YOUR OWN SECURITY WITHIN YOUR
COMPUTER.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING
CHANGE YOUR PASSWORD WHICH IS A
GOOD IDEA.
I WOULD SAY CHANGE IT NOW AND
ONCE IN A COUPLE OF WEEKS
BECAUSE SOMEONE DOES HAVE THE
KEY TO THAT LOCK, THE FIRST TIME
YOU CHANGE IT THEY MIGHT GET
THAT PASSWORD TOO.
EARLY AND OFTEN IS THE PHRASE.
ALWAYS GOOD.
>> ARE THE LARGE COMPANIES, THE
YAHOOS, THE GOOGLES OF THE
WORLD, THEY CAN PUT 10 NERDS IN
A CORNER AND FIX THIS PROBLEM
TODAY BUT WHAT ABOUT THE SMALL-
TO MEDIUM-SIZED COMPANIES?
PEOPLE WHO HAVE OUTSOURCED
CREATING THEIR ONLINE STORE
FRONT TO SOMEONE ELSE?
>> PART OF THE CONCERN IS EVEN
THE LARGE KUCHLSZ CAN'T -- I
MEAN, LIKE, WE SAW -- PART OF
THE CONCERN IS EVEN THE LARGE
COMPANIES CAN'T -- THERE ARE
SOME DOUBTS ABOUT DID ANYONE
KNOW BEFORE GOOGLE DISCOVERED
IT, WHICH IS STILL UNCLEAR.
I THINK IN TERMS OF THE
MOM-AND-POP STORE FRONTS, THE
PATCH IS OUT AND THEY CAN UPDATE
THEIR S.S.L. CERTIFICATES TODAY
AND THIS IS ALL ACROSS THE
ACROSS THE WORLD, I.T.
PROFESSIONALS ARE DOING THAT NOW
AS WE SPEAK.
>> WHY WAS THIS BREACH, THE PART
WE WERE TOLD IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF DAYS IS THAT THIS BREACH HAS
EXISTED FOR YEARS.
>> IT'S BEEN POSSIBLE SINCE 2012
BUT IT DIDN'T OCCUR ANYONE TO
APPROACH A SERVER IN EXACTLY
THIS WAY.
WE KNOW THAT THE GOOGLE ENGINEER
WHO DISCOVERED IT ALONG WITH A
SEPARATE ENGINEER, THEY FINALLY
WERE ABLE TO SAY, "WAIT, IF
SOMEONE DOES THIS IT WILL BE A
HUGE PROBLEM" BUT THAT TOOK A
LOT OF CREATIVITY AND A LOT OF
TIME.
THE CONCERN NOW IS DID ANYONE
BEFORE THEM THINK OF THIS AND
INSTEAD OF DOING THE RIGHT THING
AND PUBLISHING IT THEY WANTED TO
USE IT FOR NEFARRIOUS ENDS AND
USE IT TO GET INTO SERVERS THAT
THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE HAD ACCESS
TO.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY EVIDENCE THAT
THAT TOOK PLACE BUT IT'S
OBVIOUSLY A HUGE CONCERN FOR THE
SECURITY COMMUNITY.
>> AND WE DON'T HAVE EVIDENCE
THAT IT DIDN'T TAKE PLACE
EITHER.
>> EXACTLY.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN ALMOST A
YEAR SINCE A BANGLADESH FACTORY
COLLAPSED, KILLING MORE THAN
11,000 GARMENT WORKERS AND
INJURING 25,000 OTHERS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FRED DE
SAM LAZARO RETURNED TO THE
COUNTRY RECENTLY TO SEE WHAT'S
BEEN DONE TO MAKE FACTORIES
SAFER, AND WHETHER VICTIMS OF
THE DISASTER HAVE BEEN
COMPENSATED.
HIS REPORT IS A PARTNERSHIP WITH
THE PULITZER CENTER ON CRISIS
REPORTING.
>> SHE HAD BEEN RESCUED AFTER
SPENDING TWO DAYS UNDER THE
RUBBLE.
DOCTORS SAID SHE WAS LUCKY TO
SURVIVE THE BUILDING COLLAPSE
THAT CLAIMED MORE THAN 1100
LIEFSZ AND FORTUNATE THAT HER
SPINE REMAINED INTACT.
THAT'S NOT THE WAY SHE FEELS
TODAY.
>> SOMETIMES I WONDER HOW I CAN
CONTINUE THIS LIFE.
I CANNOT DO ANYTHING.
IF I BEND TO PICK UP ANYTHING
FROM THE FLOOR, IT REALLY HURTS.
SOMETIMES I SAY IT MIGHT BE
BETTER TO DIE.
>> THE 19-YEAR-OLD SAYS SHE'S IN
ALMOST CONSTANT PAIN, UNABLE TO
SIT OR STAND FOR MORE THAN A FEW
MINUTES AT A TIME.
WE HAD TO INTERRUPT OUR
INTERVIEW SO SHE COULD STRETCH.
>> I HAD SURGERY ON MY SPINAL
CHORD, AND THE DOCTORS SAID NOT
TO DO ANY HARD WORK BECAUSE HURT
MY SPINAL CORD.
THEY SAID IT COULD TAKE A LONG
TIME TO HEAL.
>> THOUGH MOST DAYS ARE SPENT IN
BED WATCHING TV IN THE TINY
ONE-ROOM HOME SHE SHARES WITH
HER PARENTS AND TWO YOUNGER
SISTERS.
SHE WAS A BREAD WINNER UNTIL
LAST APRIL.
NOW, SHE FRETS BEING A BURDEN.
HER MOTHER ALSO HAD TO QUIT HER
GARMENT FACTORY JOB.
>> I HAVE TO CARE FOR HER, AND
THERE IS NO WAY THAT I CAN TAKE
A JOB OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE.
OUR BIG CONCERN IS HOW LONG SHE
WILL BE THIS WAY.
ABOUT HER FUTURE.
>> THEY ARE LIKE MILLIONS OF
IMPOVERISHED RURAL FAMILIES WHO
MOVED TO THE CAPITAL CITY IN
RECENT YEARS TO WORK IN THE
GARMENT INDUSTRY THAT'S SECOND
NOW ONLY TO CHINA'S IN SIZE.
THE FATHER'S EARNINGS AREOUT
$3 A DAY.
ABOUT ALL THIS FAMILY HAS.
>> WHEN SHE WAS IN THE HOSPITAL,
PEOPLE TOOK DOWN HER NAME AND I
HAVE HEARD OF PEOPLE GETTING
COMPENSATION BUT NO ONE HAS
CONTACTED US.
>> WHEN THEY LEARNED, SEVERAL
NEIGHBORS GATHERED AROUND
CLUTCHING PICTURES OF RELATIVES
WHO DIED IN THE BUILDING
COLLAPSE.
SOME SAID THEY RECEIVED JUST
$1300 U.S. DOLLARS FROM A
GOVERNMENT FUND.
SOME COMPLAINED IT HAD GONE TO
THE WRONG FAMILY MEMBERS.
THERE ARE NO RELIABLE RECORDS OF
WHO WORKED IN THE BUILDING OR
WHICH COMPANIES WHICH CONTRACTS
AND THEREFORE MIGHT BEAR
RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPENSATING
VICTIMS.
ADD RED TAPE ON TOP OF THAT AND
RELIEF HAS BEEN SLOW TO REACH
VICTIMS AND FAMILIES, SAYS A
LABOR ORGANIZER.
>> IT IS THE FAULT OF THE
GOVERNMENT, PART OF THE BUYERS
AND NOBODY CAN DENY THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THAT.
>> ALL BUT THE WORKERS, HE SAYS,
HAVE BENEFITED FROM AN OPAQUE
TRADE THAT RELIES ON LOW WAGES
AND LAX REGULATION.
THE IMAGE OF MANY GLOBAL APPAREL
COMPANIES WAS THREATENED WITH
THE WORKERS RIGHTS CONSORTIUM.
>> THEY WORK VERY HARD TO CREATE
AS MUCH DISTANCE AS POSSIBLE
BETWEEN THE REALITY FOR THE
WORKERS WHO CREATE THEIR
PRODUCTS AND FOR THE CONSUMERS
WHO BUY AND WEAR THOSE PRODUCTS,
BUT WHEN AN EVENT LIKE THIS
CLOSES THOSE DISTANCE IT SHOWS
THE CONSUMERS THE CONDITIONS
UNDER WHICH THEIR CLOTHING IS
BEING MADE AND IT CREATES AN
IMPRESSION ON THE RETAILERS TO
CHANGE PRACTICES.
>> IN GENERAL HE SAYS EUROPEAN
BRANDS HAVE ACTED MORE
RESPONSIBLY.
153 COMPANIES RECENTLY SIGNED
ONTO A LEGALLY BINDING
MULTIMILLION DOLLAR WORKER
SAFETY ACCORD TO RESPECT AND
RAISE REGULATIONS TO BUILDING
STANDARDS.
MOST BIG AMERICAN NAMES DID NOT
JOIN THE GROUP.
A FEW DID.
>> WE HAVE THE COMPANY WHICH
EARNS CALVIN KLEIN AND TOMMY
HILFIGER AND OTHERS WHO ARE
HOUSEHOLD NAMES IN THE U.S. LIKE
ADIDAS AND H&M, BUT THE
WAL-MARTS, THE GAPS HAVE NOT
CHOSEN TO BE PART OF THIS
CRITICAL PROCESS OF CHANGE AND
THAT IS EXTREMELY DISTURBING TO
WATCH.
>> SOME EXPERTS SAY LIABILITY
CONCERNS HAVE KEPT THE AMERICAN
COMPANIES FROM LEGALLY BINDING
COMMITMENTS BUT RAMI NESBA SAYS
JUST BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T SIGN
DOESN'T MEAN THEY'VE DONE
NOTHING.
>> JUST AS A GENTLEMAN'S
AGREEMENT AND UNDERSTANDING AND
PERCEPTION NOT NECESSARILY HAS
TO BE LEGALLY BINDING.
>> HE SAYS HAS SO-CALLED
ALLIANCE GROUP HAS HIRED
INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL
ENGINEERS TO DO SAFETY
INSPECTIONS OF GARMENT
FACTORIES.
>> WE ARE TRYING TO ENGAGE THE
WORKERS.
WE ARE ESTABLISHING OUTLINES TO
LISTEN TO THEIR VOICE SO WE CAN
BE AS RESPONSIVE AS POSSIBLE.
>> THE ALLIANCE COLLABORATED
WITH THE EUROPEAN GROUP ON
COMMON SAFETY CONCERNS, RECENTLY
SPONSORING A BUILDING SAFETY
EXPO, FOR EXAMPLE.
IT INTRODUCED OWNERS OF THE
4,000-ODD FACTORIES TO THINGS
LIKE FIRE DOORS AND SPRINKLERS,
VIRTUALLY UNHEARD OF IN
BANGLADESH.
FOR THEIR PART, FACTORY OWNERS
LIKE SHAMIR HAVE TALKED ABOUT
TALKING BUT UNWILLING TO PAY FOR
IT.
>> THE BUYERS SAY "WE'LL GO
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
>> BESIDES BUILDING
IMPROVEMENTS, THE FACTORY OWNER
GROUPS SAID WAGES WERE
INCREASED.
THE LEGAL MINIMUM OFFERED
WORKERS HAS GONE FROM $38 A
MONTH TO ABOUT $70 A MONTH.
>> WE HAVE INCREASED OUR SALARY.
THE NEW SALARY STRUCTURE HAS
BEEN DECLARED.
>> THEY ARE NOT PAYING YOU MORE
EVEN THOUGH YOU RAISED THE
WAGES?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> WORKERS' REPRESENTATIVES
CLAIM THAT WAGES EVEN WITH THE
RECENT INCREASES OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARE WELL BELOW WHAT'S
CONSIDERED LIVEABLE IN
BANGLADESH.
LABOR ORGANIZER SAYS THERE IS A
LONG WAY TO GO ON OTHER RIGHTS
WORKERS ARE SUPPOSED TO ENJOY.
>> THE WORKERS ARE ENJOYING THE
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION, AND
GOVERNMENT IS LIKELY TO
IMPLEMENT THE EXISTING LAWS.
>> GOVERNMENT IS GREATLY
INFLUENCED BY THE GARMENT
INDUSTRY, HE SAYS.
MANY MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT ALSO
OWN GARMENT FACTORIES.
FOR HIS PART, HE SAYS IN TWO
DECADES F MILLION WORKERS
HAVE BEEN BROUGHT OUT OF DIRE
POVERTY, AND THE TRAGEDY WILL
MAKE THE MULTIBILLION DOLLAR
READY-MADE GARMENT BUSINESS MORE
TRANSPARENT AND PROSPEROUS, HE
SAYS.
>> $50 MILLION.
>> MORE IMMEDIATELY, GOVERNMENT
AND OFFICIALS SAY THE FAMILIES
AFFECTED BY THE TRAGEDY WILL
BEGIN RECEIVING COMPENSATION.
THE BRITISH RETAILER PRIME MARK
ANNOUNCED A FUND TO HELP
FAMILIES WHO PRODUCED ITS
GARMENTS IN THE BUILDING.
FOR HER PART, CHASNA ACTTAR
FANTASIZED ABOUT THE WORLD
BEYOND.
>> PEOPLE WHO  THE CLOTHES
MADE BY WORKERS LIKE US.
FOR FUN, WHEN WE WERE MAKING
SHIRTS I PUT MY MOBILE NUMBER IN
THE POCKET OF THE SHIRTS.
I KNEW THAT THE PEOPLE WHO WEAR
THESE SHIRTS COULD NOT SPEAK
BANGLA, SO I WRITE IN ENGLISH,
"IF YOU LIKE THE SHIRT, CALL
ME."
>> DID YOU GET A CALL?
>> SHE GOT THREE CALLS, SHE
SAID, LIMITED BY THE LANGUAGE
BARRIER TO NO MORE THAN A BRIEF
GREETING.
THAT WAS BEFORE HER CELL PHONE
WAS LOST IN THE COLLAPSE.
>> Woodruff: LATE LAST MONTH,
THREE MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS SAID
THEY WOULD PROVIDE COMPENSATION
TO VICTIMS OF THE BUILDING
COLLAPSE: WAL-MART CONTRIBUTED
ONE MILLION DOLLARS AND
CHILDREN'S PLACE AND GAP GAVE
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS EACH.
FRED'S REPORTING IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-TOLD
STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Ifill: A TEXAS INMATE IS
SCHEDULED FOR EXECUTION TONIGHT,
THE SECOND THIS WEEK, AND THE
SIXTH THIS YEAR TO DIE BY LETHAL
INJECTION.
BUT EVEN AS THE NUMBER OF
EXECUTIONS HAS DECLINED
IN THE 32 STATES WHERE THE DEATH
PENALTY IS LEGAL, THE MANNER IN
WHICH INMATES ARE PUT TO DEATH
IS NOW UNDER SCRUTINY.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE PRACTICE OF
LETHAL INJECTION ITSELF HAS
GROWN MORE COMPLICATED.
SUPPLIES OF THE NEEDED DRUGS
HAVE DWINDLED, IN PART BECAUSE
EUROPEAN MANUFACTURERS HAVE BEEN
BANNED FROM EXPORTING THEM TO
STATES THAT INTEND TO USE THEM
IN EXECUTIONS.
THE SCRAMBLE TO REPLACE THOSE
DRUGS WITH OTHERS MANUFACTURED
HERE HAS DELAYED SOME EXECUTIONS
AND THROWN OTHERS INTO COURT, AS
INMATES AND THEIR LAWYERS
QUESTION WHETHER TEW
APPROACH WILL RESULT IN A CRUEL
OR UNUSUAL DEATH.
FOR MORE ON THIS ISSUE, WE TURN
TO MEGAN MCCRACKEN WITH THE U.C.
BERKELEY SCHOOL OF LAW'S DEATH
PENALTY CLINIC.
AND DR. JOEL ZIVOT OF EMORY
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
>> MEGAN MCCRACKEN, IS THE
PROBLEM THE SHORTAGE OR THE
AVAILABILITY OF THESE DRUGS?
>> IT'S ABOUT THE AVAILABILITY
OF THE DRUGS.
THERE IS NO SHORTAGE OF THE
DRUGS.
RATHER, THE PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES HAVE MADE THE DECISION
THAT THEY DON'T WANT THEIR NAMES
AND THEIR PRODUCTS USED IN
EXECUTIONS, SO THEY'VE SET UP
LOGISTIC DISTRIBUTION SO THAT
DEPARTMENTS OF CORRECTIONS
CANNOT GET THEIR DRUGS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF EXECUTION, BUT THE
DRUGS REMAIN FULLY AVAILABLE,
WIDELY AVAILABLE FOR CLINICAL
USE IN HOSPITALS AND CLINICS SO
THAT PATIENTS WHO NEED THEM CAN
STILL GET THEM.
>> WHICH DRUGS ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT?
WALK US THROUGH THEM.
>> PRIMARILY WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
PENTABARBITAL.
THE BRAND NAME IS NEMBUTAL.
THE PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY
DECIDED THEY DIDN'T WANT THE
PRODUCT USED IN EXECUTIONS SO
THEY RESTRICTED DISTRIBUTION SO
IT'S NOT AVAILABLE TO
DEPARTMENTS OF CORRECTIONS FOR
THAT PURPOSE.
>> DR. ZIVOT, FROM A MEDICAL
PERSPECTIVE, WHAT KIND OF
PROBLEM DOES THIS PRESENT?
>> FROM THE MEDICAL PERSPECTIVE,
NIDE TO BE CLEAR THAT THE LETHAL
INJECTION IS NOT -- I NEED TO BE
CLEAR THAT MEDICAL INJECTION IS
NOT A MEDICAL ACT.
IF YOU'RE ASKING ME WHAT IS THE
ROLE OF THE DRUGS AND HOW DOES
IT AFFECT MY PRACTICE,
PENTABARBITAL HAS A PARTICULAR
USE WHICH IS RELATED TO THE
TREATMENT OF SEIZURES.
OTHER MEDICATIONS USED IN LETHAL
INJECTIONS ARE MEDICATIONS THAT
I REQUIRE TO GIVE PATIENTS AND
IF I HAVE TO BE COMPETING, SO TO
SPEAK, WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS OVER WHO GETS
AIN KINDS OF MEDICATIONS,
THAT CREATES AN UNUSUAL KIND OF
CIRCUMSTANCE WHERE MEDICATION
THAT REALLY IS INTENDED TO HEAL
IS NOW IN FACT USED TO KILL.
>> Woodruff: PART OF THE
QUESTIONS BEING RAISED, DOCTOR,
HAVE TO DO WITH WHETHER THESE
ARE EFFECTIVE FOR WHAT THEY ARE
DESIGNED TO DO EVEN IF THEY ARE
DESIGNED TO KILL AND WHETHER IN
FACT SOME OF THESE INMATES ARE
SUFFERING MORE THAN THEY OUGHT
TO.
IS THERE ANY WAY TO MEASURE
THAT?
>> I THINK THAT YOU HAVE REALLY
COME DOWN TO WHERE THE PROBLEM
IS.
FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO SAY,
TOO, THAT NONE OF THESE
MEDICATIONS -- AND I'M GOING TO
CALL THEM THAT FOR NOW BECAUSE
THAT'S HOW I THINK OF THEM --
ARE EVER DESIGNED TO KILL.
THESE THINGS ARE USED NOW AND
REPURPOSED FOR THE PURPOSE OF
KILLING BY THE DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS BUT NOT BECAUSE
THAT'S THE INTENTION OF THE
MANUFACTURER.
I DON'T THINK ANY MANUFACTURER
OF A PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG MAKES
SOMETHING THAT'S USED
SPECIFICALLY TO KILL.
I THINK THAT -- AND THE PROBLEM
IS THAT THE STANDARDS THAT THESE
COMPOUNDS ARE USED IN THE
CIRCUMSTANCE OF TREATMENT, THAT
IS TO SAY WHEN A DRUG IS MADE
UNDER A CERTAIN DEGREE OF PURITY
WHICH IS REQUIRED, IF IT'S GIVEN
TO A PATIENT, THAT'S NOT THE
SAME THING AS MAKING A COMPOUND
THAT'S GOING TO BE GIVEN FOR
EXECUTION.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT RULES THOSE
ARE.
I'M NOT SURE HOW TO MEASURE
THAT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE IS SOME
CONCERN TRYING TO COMPARE THESE
TWO TOGETHER BUT THERE IS A
PROBLEM IN TRYING TO USE THE
SAME LANGUAGE IN THIS DEBATE.
>> LET ME ASK MEGAN MCCRACKEN
ABOUT IT BECAUSE ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY THERE ARE NO MEDICAL
PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN THESE
EXECUTIONS IS BECAUSE OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT DR. ZIVOT WAS
JUST RAISING, BUT AS YOU LOOK AT
THIS AND AS YOU ASSESS WHETHER
OR NOT THIS IS AN EFFECTIVE
METHOD TO CARRY OUT THE LAW, IS
IT EFFECTIVE?
>> WELL, ACTUALLY, I WOULD SAY
FIRST THAT THERE ARE MEDICAL
PROFESSIONALS PARTICIPATING IN
EXECUTIONS TO VARYING DEGREES
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THERE ARE E.M.T.'S.
THERE ARE NURSES.
PARTICIPATING AS MEMBERS OF
EXECUTION TEAMS BUT AGAIN, IN
DIFFERING CAPACITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
IN TERMS OF THE EFFECTIVENESS, I
THINK THERE ARE TWO QUESTIONS AT
PLAY THERE.
ONE IS, DOES DEATH OCCUR?
DO THE DRUGS BRING ABOUT DEATH?
AND I THINK FOR THE MOST PART
THE ANSWER IS YES.
THE UNDERLYING QUESTION,
HOWEVER, IS DO THE DRUGS BRING
ABOUT DEATH IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THE CONSTITUTION -- YOU KNOW,
WITH AS MINIMAL OF PAIN AND
SUFFERING AND RISK OF PAIN AND
SUFFERING AS POSSIBLE, AND
THERE, THERE ARE A LOT OF
QUESTIONS.
A LOT OF EXECUTION PROCEDURES
STILL RELY ON A PAIR LYTIC DRUG,
AND ONCE THE PRISONER HAS BEEN
-- RELY ON A PARALYTIC DRUG AND
ONCE THE PRISONER HAS BEEN
PARALYZED, A LOT OF RISKS COME
IN TO PLAY IN PROCEDURES THAT
PARALYZE PRISONERS.
>> THE ARGUMENT SEEMS TO COME
DOWN TO WHETHER THE INMATES KNOW
WHAT KIND OF DRUGS OF BEING USED
AND THAT'S WHAT'S BEING
CHALLENGED.
THAT'S WHAT'S BEEN GOING TO THE
SUPREME COURT.
>> RIGHT.
THAT IS A VERY BIG ISSUE RIGHT
NOW.
A LOT OF STATES ARE TRYING TO
KEEP THE SOURCING OF THEIR DRUGS
WHICH IN THE END GETS DOWN TO
TRYING TO KEEP THE INFORMATION
SECRET.
A LOST STATES HAVE TURNED TO
COMPOUNDING PHARMACIES WHICH MIX
UP -- A LOT OF STATES HAVE
TURNED TO COMPOUNDING PHARMACIES
WHICH MIX UP SPECIAL BATCHES AND
THE STATES HAVE REFUSED TO TURN
OVER WHERE THE DRUGS ARE COMING
FROM AND IT'S CRUCIAL
INFORMATION BECAUSE ESPECIALLY
WITH A COMPOUNDED PRODUCT, THE
PRISONER, THE PRISONER'S LAWYERS
AND THE COURTS NEED TO KNOW WAS
THIS COMPOUNDING PHARMACY
LICENSED TO MAKE A
INJECTABLE?
ARE THEY ABLE TO MAKE A STERILE
WHERE ARE THE RAW INGREDIENTS
INJECTABLE?
COMING FROM?
WHERE ARE THE RAW INGREDIENTS
ARE THESE RAW INGREDIENTS THAT
COMING FROM?
COME FROM A FACTORY KNOWN WIN
ARE THESE RAW INGREDIENTS THAT
THE U.S. OR COMING OFF THE GRAY
COME FROM A FACTORY KNOWN WIN
OR BLACK MARKET AND THAT PRODUCT
THE U.S. OR COMING OFF THE GRAY
IS A COMPLETE UNKNOWN, SO
OR BLACK MARKET AND THAT PRODUCT
QUESTIONS OF THE PURITY, THE
IS A COMPLETE UNKNOWN, SO
POTENCY, THE P.H. BALANCE,
QUESTIONS OF THE PURITY, THE
WHETHER OR NOT A PRODUCT IS
POTENCY, THE P.H. BALANCE,
CONTAMINATED ALL COMES IN TO
WHETHER OR NOT A PRODUCT IS
PLAY, AND IF THE STATES ARE ABLE
CONTAMINATED ALL COMES IN TO
TO HIDE THAT INFORMATION AND
PLAY, AND IF THE STATES ARE ABLE
REFUSE TO TURN IT OVER, THE
TO HIDE THAT INFORMATION AND
COURTS ARE PREVENTED FROM
REFUSE TO TURN IT OVER, THE
CARRYING OUT A CONSTITUTIONAL
COURTS ARE PREVENTED FROM
ANALYSIS OF THE PROCEDURES AND
CARRYING OUT A CONSTITUTIONAL
THEY ARE PREVENTED FROM
ANALYSIS OF THE PROCEDURES AND
DETERMINING IF THE PROCEDURES
THEY ARE PREVENTED FROM
COMPORT WITH THE LAW.
DETERMINING IF THE PROCEDURES
>> THE SUPREME COURT TURNED AWAY
COMPORT WITH THE LAW.
A CASE THAT WAS MAKING THAT CASE
>> THE SUPREME COURT TURNED AWAY
THIS PAST WEEK.
A CASE THAT WAS MAKING THAT CASE
DR. ZIVOT, I WANT TO ASK YOU
THIS PAST WEEK.
WHETHER THE SECRECY ISSUE, THE
DR. ZIVOT, I WANT TO ASK YOU
TRANSPARENCY ISSUE IS AN
WHETHER THE SECRECY ISSUE, THE
IMPORTANT ONE IN THIS.
TRANSPARENCY ISSUE IS AN
>> WELL, AGAIN, I WANT TO
IMPORTANT ONE IN THIS.
EMPHASIZE THAT LETHAL INJECTION
>> WELL, AGAIN, I WANT TO
IS NOT A MEDICAL ACT.
EMPHASIZE THAT LETHAL INJECTION
NOW, IT APPEARS TO BE SUCH AND I
IS NOT A MEDICAL ACT.
THINK THAT'S NOT UNINTENTIONAL.
NOW, IT APPEARS TO BE SUCH AND I
I AM CONCERNED BY THE APPEARANCE
THINK THAT'S NOT UNINTENTIONAL.
HERE BECAUSE THE REALITY IS
I AM CONCERNED BY THE APPEARANCE
DIFFERENT FROM THE APPEARANCE.
HERE BECAUSE THE REALITY IS
BECAUSE AN INMATE IS NOT A
DIFFERENT FROM THE APPEARANCE.
PATIENT AND AN EXECUTIONER IS
BECAUSE AN INMATE IS NOT A
NOT A DOCTOR, I CAN'T MAKE A
PATIENT AND AN EXECUTIONER IS
DIRECT COMPARISON.
NOT A DOCTOR, I CAN'T MAKE A
I WILL SAY THAT IF I -- AS A
DIRECT COMPARISON.
PHYSICIAN, AM CARING FOR A
I WILL SAY THAT IF I -- AS A
PATIENT AND I AM TAKING A
PHYSICIAN, AM CARING FOR A
MEDICATION AND INJECTING IT IN
PATIENT AND I AM TAKING A
TO THEM, THERE IS AN
MEDICATION AND INJECTING IT IN
UNDERSTANDING AND A GUARANTEE,
TO THEM, THERE IS AN
IF YOU WILL, THAT THE QUALITY OF
UNDERSTANDING AND A GUARANTEE,
THE MEDICATION, THE POTENCY OF
IF YOU WILL, THAT THE QUALITY OF
THE MEDICATION IS SPECIFIC FOR
THE MEDICATION, THE POTENCY OF
THE INTENDED PURPOSE.
THE MEDICATION IS SPECIFIC FOR
I THINK TO MEGAN'S POINT, THESE
THE INTENDED PURPOSE.
COMPOUNDS CAN BE MANY THINGS.
I THINK TO MEGAN'S POINT, THESE
IT'S HARD NOT TO SEAT IRONY
COMPOUNDS CAN BE MANY THINGS.
HERE, I SUPPOSE, AS TO WHAT
IT'S HARD NOT TO SEAT IRONY
WOULD HAPPEN IF THE DRUG FAILED
HERE, I SUPPOSE, AS TO WHAT
TO BE EFFECTIVE -- THAT IS TO
WOULD HAPPEN IF THE DRUG FAILED
SAY, IT WOULD FAIL TO CAUSE
TO BE EFFECTIVE -- THAT IS TO
DEATH.
SAY, IT WOULD FAIL TO CAUSE
NORMALLY WHEN DRUGS CAUSE DEATH
DEATH.
WE WOULD SAY THAT WOULD BE THE
NORMALLY WHEN DRUGS CAUSE DEATH
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE AND NOT
WE WOULD SAY THAT WOULD BE THE
THE INTENDED ONE, AND I WOULD
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE AND NOT
AGREE WITH MEGAN THAT IF AN
THE INTENDED ONE, AND I WOULD
INMATE ULTIMATELY DIES, THEN I
AGREE WITH MEGAN THAT IF AN
SUPPOSED TO A CERTAIN DEGREE THE
INMATE ULTIMATELY DIES, THEN I
DRUG WAS EFFECTIVE.
SUPPOSED TO A CERTAIN DEGREE THE
I THINK THE PROBLEM IS THAT WHAT
DRUG WAS EFFECTIVE.
HAPPENS BETWEEN THE BEGINNING OF
I THINK THE PROBLEM IS THAT WHAT
THE INJECTION OF THE DRUG AND
HAPPENS BETWEEN THE BEGINNING OF
DEATH IS ENTIRELY UNCERTAIN.
THE INJECTION OF THE DRUG AND
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN INJECTIONS ARE
DEATH IS ENTIRELY UNCERTAIN.
CONDUCT NOUD AND THE MIXING OF
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN INJECTIONS ARE
MEDICATION AND THE LACK OF
CONDUCT NOUD AND THE MIXING OF
OBSERVATION AND THE LACK OF
MEDICATION AND THE LACK OF
REVEALING OF EVIDENCE IT'S
OBSERVATION AND THE LACK OF
DIFFICULT TO LOOK AT THIS
REVEALING OF EVIDENCE IT'S
SCIENTIFICALLY.
DIFFICULT TO LOOK AT THIS
>> WE'RE RUNNING OUT OF TIME.
SCIENTIFICALLY.
DR. JOEL VIZOT OF EMORY
>> WE'RE RUNNING OUT OF TIME.
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL AND MEGAN
DR. JOEL VIZOT OF EMORY
MCCRACKEN OF U.C. BERKELEY,
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL AND MEGAN
THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: SEVENTY-FIVE YEARS
AGO TODAY, ON THE STEPS OF THE
LINCOLN MEMORIAL, MARIAN
ANDERSON SET A MILESTONE IN
CIVIL RIGHTS HISTORY.
TONIGHT, WE BEGIN A SERIES
EXPLORING ICONIC MOMENTS AND
LEGISLATION THAT CONTINUE TO
SHAPE RACE RELATIONS IN AMERICA.
JEFFREY BROWN KICKS IT OFF WITH
A LOOK BACK AT ANDERSON'S
GROUNDBREAKING PERFORMANCE.
>> 75,000 ARE HERE AT THE
LINCOLN MEMORIAL TO HEAR MARIAN
ANDERSON, A CONTRALTO, WHO IS
MAKING HER DEBUT AT THE
EMANCIPATION SHRINE.
>> Brown: APRIL 8TH, 1939.
MARIAN ANDERSON MADE HERSTATEMEH
THE POWER AND BEAUTY OF HER
VOICE.
>>  MY COUNTRY TIS OF THEE
SWEET LAND OF LIBERTY
>> Brown: THREE QUARTERS OF A
CENTURY LATER, YOUNG PEOPLE
GATHERED AT THE SAME SPOT TO
HONOR MARIAN ANDERSON AND
COMMEMORATE HER EASTER DAY
CONCERT.
>>  HE'S GOT THE WHOLE WORLD IN
HIS HANDS
>> Brown: THE WASHINGTON
PERFORMING ARTS SOCIETY'S
"CHILDREN OF GOSPEL CHOIR"
SANG.
ANISSE MURILLO,  A JUNIOR AT
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT HIGH SCHOOL IN
GREENBELT, MARYLAND, TOLD US WHY
SHE'D WANTED TO TAKE PART.
>> THIS EVENT TODAY COULD SHOW
ALL THESE YOUNG PEOPLE TODAY TO
GO HOME AND FIND OUT WHO MARIAN
ANDERSON IS AND THE WORD WILL
THEN SPREAD.
IT TAUGHT ME ACTIONS SPEAK
LOUDER THAN WORDS AND YOU DON'T
HAVE TO GET ALL ANGRY.
YOU JUST HAVE TO KEEP GOING AND
KILL PEOPLE WITH KINDNESS.
>> THE LIGHT IN HER BEAUTIFUL
VOICE OVERCAME DISCRIMINATION.
AND HER VOICE WAS MUCH LARGER
THAN THE HALL THAT PREVENTED HER
FROM SINGING.
>> Brown: FOLLOWING WORDS FROM
U.S. INTERIOR SECRETARY SALLY
JEWELL  ABOUT ANDERSON'S LEGACY.
WASHINGTON, D.C. FOURTH-GRADER
SKY JABALI-RAINEY TOOK ON THE
ROLE OF MARIAN ANDERSON.
>> I AM MARIAN ANDERSON.
I WAS REFUSED THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SING AT THE DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION HALL.
YOU SEE WHEN I SING, I DON'T
WANT THEM TO SEE MY FACE IS
BLACK OR WHITE.
I WANT THEM TO SEE MY SOUL.
>> SHE HAD THE COURAGE TO SING
IN FRONT OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
YOU HAVE GOT TO GET UP AND FIGHT
THE FEAR.
MADE THE MESSAGE QUITE CLEAR.
CONCERTS BY WHITE ARTISTS ONLY.
AN ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE AT
THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL WAS
ARRANGED BY SUPPORTERS WHICH
INCLUDED FIRST LADY ELEANOR
ROOSEVELT, AND ANDERSON SANG OF
HER COUNTRY'S ORIGINAL PROMISE.
FROM EVERY MOUNTAINSIDE
LET FREEDOM RING
>> ANDERSON HERSELF BEGAN
SINGING WITH A BAPTIST CHURCH
CHOIR IN PHILADELPHIA.
A CHILDREN OF MODEST MEANS, SHE
AND TWO SISTERS WERE RAISED BY
THEIR MOTHER AFTER THEIR FATHER
DIED.
AT 15, SHE TOOK HER FIRST FORMAL
MUSIC LESSONS AND AT 30 WENT TO
EUROPE TO ESTABLISH HERSELF IN A
MORE WELCOMING ENVIRONMENT, AS
MANY BLACK PERFORMERS AT THE
TIME DID.
SHE RETURNED HOME IN 1935 AND
WAS AGAIN CONFRONTED BY A
SEGREGATED AMERICA.
SHE SPOKE ABOUT THE EXPERIENCE
AT THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL,
CAPTURED IN A DOCUMENTARY
PRODUCED BY PUBLIC STATION
W.E.T.A.
>> I WASN'T A PERSON, AND AM NOT
TO THIS DAY, A REAL GREAT
FIGHTER FOR ANYTHING.
THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO WILL, IF
THEY WANT SOMETHING, THEY FIGHT,
FIGHT, FIGHT.
THEY DON'T MIND, WITH THEIR FEET
AND THEIR HANDS AND EVERYTHING.
AND THOSE PEOPLE ARE VERY, VERY
NECESSARY.
BUT THERE ARE SOME WHO HOPE
AT, IF THEY'RE DOING SOMETHING
WORTHWHILE, THAT IT WILL SPEAK
FOR THEM.
>> Brown: UNDERLINING THAT
POINT, NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
RANGER MONAMMA AL-GHUIYY SPOKE
OF THE IMPACT ANDERSON HAD ON
HER PERSONALLY IN A CHANCE
MEETING YEARS AGO.
>> SHE CAME OVER AND PUT HER
HANDS ON MY CHEEKS AND SAID,
"YOU ARE A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN AND
WILL GO FAR IN LIFE."
TO SAY THAT HAD A REALLY BIG
IMPACT ON ME.
>> Brown: THE SUN WAS SHINING
AGAIN ON THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL
THIS MORNING, MUCH AS IT DID 75
YEARS AGO, AS THE YOUNG SKY
JABALI-RAINEY HONORED MARIAN
ANDERSON WITH THIS REPRISE:
MY COUNTRY 'TIS OF THEE
SWEET LAND OF LIBERTY
FOR THEE I SING
>> Ifill: THIS YEAR ALSO MARKS
THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
SIGNING OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT.
THE LYNDON JOHNSON PRESIDENTIAL
LIBRARY IS COMMEMORATING THE
BILL'S PASSAGE WITH A CIVIL
RIGHTS SUMMIT THIS WEEK THAT
WILL FEATURE REMARKS FROM FOUR
LIVING PRESIDENTS.
ON THURSDAY, WHEN PRESIDENT
OBAMA SPEAKS, WE'LL HAVE OUR OWN
CONVERSATION FROM AUSTIN ABOUT
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT, FIVE
DECADES LATER.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
NEWLY RELEASED MEDICARE DATA
SHOWED A FEW HUNDRED DOCTORS ARE
GETTING MILLIONS IN PAYMENTS
EVERY YEAR.
A 16-YEAR-OLD BOY ALLEGEDLY
STABBED AND SLASHED 19 STUDENTS
AND A GUARD AT A HIGH SCHOOL IN
PENNSYLVANIA.
SEVERAL VICTIMS WERE IN CRITICAL
CONDITION.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, WHY ANIMALS KILL
THEIR YOUNG, AND WHY THE LAWS OF
EVOLUTION SAY THAT'S SOMETIMES
NECESSARY.
WE HAVE VIDEO OF CHEETAH CUBS
RESCUED FROM THEIR MOTHER, AND
AN ORPHANED TWO-MONTH-OLD SLOTH
BEAR CUB.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT ON PBS, A
NEW THREE-PART SERIES, "YOUR
INNER FISH" EXPLORES OUR
EVOLUTIONARY HISTORY.
PALEO-BIOLOGIST NEIL SHUBIN
TRACES HOW THE HUMAN BODY
REVEALS THE STORY OF LIFE ON
EARTH.
IN THIS EXCERPT, WE SEE WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN A BABY MONKEY IS
GIVEN THE SAME CHALLENGE AS A
THREE-MONTH-OLD GIRL.
>> TOM BURGDOFF STUDIED MONKEYS
IN ORDER TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
ABOUT OUR OWN BRAINS.
HE'S GOING TO SHOW ME AN
EXPERIMENT THAT DEMONSTRATES AN
IMPORTANT DIFFERENCE BETWEEN OUR
BRAIN AND THE BRAIN OF THE
MONKEY.
THE DIFFERENCES AREN'T WHAT YOU
MIGHT EXPECT.
ESPECIALLY WHEN WE'RE YOUNG.
>> THIS EXPERIMENT TESTS
SOMETHING CALLED OBJECT
PERMANENCE, IN OTHER WORDS,
WHETHER THIS MONKEY KNOWS THE
OBJECT STILL EXISTS WHEN SHE
CAN'T SEE IT.
IT'S A DEVELOPMENTAL MILESTONE
FOR BOTH MONKEYS AND HUMANS.
>> WE'RE GOING TO PUT A PIECE OF
FRUIT ON THE TOY ITSELF.
THEN WE'RE GOING TO HIDE THAT
TOY.
>> WOW.
WOW.
THAT IS IMPRESSIVE.
>> THREE MONTHS OLD AND ALREADY
SHE UNDERSTANDS OBJECT
PERMANENCE.
>> HI, GINA, HOW ARE YOU?
>> GENEVA IS THE SAME AGE AS THE
BABY MONKEY.
I'M GOING TO DO THE EXACT SAME
TEST ON HER UNDER THE EXPERT EYE
OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
PROFESSOR SUSAN STEIGER.
LOOK AT HER LOOK AT YOU.
YOU LIKE THOSE.
I'M AN EXPERT AT THIS.
>> SHE WONDERS, WHAT DID YOU DO?
I DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY WENT.
>> IT IS INCREDIBLE.
IF IT IS NOT THERE, IT DOESN'T
EXIST.
THAT IS AMAZING.
>> Ifill: "YOUR INNER FISH"
PREMIERS LATER THIS EVENINGS ON
MOST PBS STATIONS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE.
ROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT